feat(safety): gps Redundancy Failsafe (#26863)
PX4/PX4-Autopilot: docs/en/config/safety.md

Note that if there is no horizontal aiding source anymore, the position estimate is invalidated after `EKF2_NOAID_TOUT`, and the standard position loss failsafe applies.

### GNSS Check Failsafe

<Badge type="tip" text="PX4 v1.18" />

> The GNSS check failsafe has two triggers, both configured by [COM_GPS_LOSS_ACT](#COM_GPS_LOSS_ACT):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
({parameter URL}#COM_GPS_LOSS_ACT):
```
Don't you need an URL before the parameter name still? Maybe I just don't know the latest doc generation.

Author: I don't know what is the official convention (and if there is one) but this follows the same pattern as the Battery Failsafe, so the real url is in the table below while that it should just be a jump to the table.

Reviewer 2: @gguidone You're doing the right thing.

@MaEtUgR What's going on here is that we have tables in the docs that summarise the parameters. Rather than linking to the official parameter docs we link down to the table, which is an in page fragment link. The tables link to the actual parameters.

I like this format because I find it useful to have a summary of the relevant parameters in one place, and to not lose the context of the current page if I click a link. The risk of the table version getting out of sync with the docs is real but worth it to me.

Reviewer: Totally, sorry for the misconception then :+1:

> - **Count drop**: the number of receivers with a 3D fix drops below [SYS_HAS_NUM_GNSS](#SYS_HAS_NUM_GNSS). No action when `SYS_HAS_NUM_GNSS=0`, only a warning.

Reviewer 2: If you've set `SYS_HAS_NUM_GNSS=0` and you drop below zero receivers you will trigger a warning whatever COM_GPS_LOSS_ACT says - right?

Author: You cannot droop below zero receivers, but the idea is that if your number of receiver drops (for example 2->1), then regardless of the COM_GPS_LOSS_ACT, soon COM_GNSS_LSS_ACT, you see a warning.

The reason is that if you don't set the NUM_GNSS means you don't need to enforce that your number of sensors is that one but is still useful to know that you lost a sensor

Reviewer 2: Yes, sorry, my comment was rubbish.  How about something like

```suggestion
- **Count drop**: the number of receivers with a 3D fix drops below [SYS_HAS_NUM_GNSS](#SYS_HAS_NUM_GNSS).
  When `SYS_HAS_NUM_GNSS=0` the configured action is disabled, but on trigger a warning is still emitted.
```

Reviewer 2: @gguidone Ping - note a couple of comments from me still open.

Reviewer: > No action when `SYS_HAS_NUM_GNSS=0`, only a warning.

means that if you don't require any GNSS receiver it will still emit a message upon losing one to inform the user but there's no failsafe action or blocking of arming because there's no requirement. Your formulations are both correct I'm prefering the shorter one. Does it need to be adjusted?

Reviewer: It actually only warns if you loose one of two not when you loose a single one. I went through the docs now and updated the wording in 8130f9b029ad6855278714ecf235471ee08ab5b1

- **Position divergence**: two receivers report positions that disagree by more than their expected separation on the vehicle (configured via [SENS_GPS0_OFFX](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#SENS_GPS0_OFFX), [SENS_GPS0_OFFY](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#SENS_GPS0_OFFY), [SENS_GPS1_OFFX](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#SENS_GPS1_OFFX), [SENS_GPS1_OFFY](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#SENS_GPS1_OFFY)) plus their reported accuracy margin.

  This always produces a warning regardless of `SYS_HAS_NUM_GNSS`;

>   the `COM_GPS_LOSS_ACT` failsafe action is only triggered when `SYS_HAS_NUM_GNSS=2`.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps invert (this is all very complicated, and I think this might help a little):

```suggestion
  The configured `COM_GPS_LOSS_ACT` failsafe action is only triggered when `SYS_HAS_NUM_GNSS=2`.
  Note that a warning is always emitted by this trigger regardless of `SYS_HAS_NUM_GNSS` or `COM_GPS_LOSS_ACT`.

```

>   Make sure to configure the lever arm offsets of both receivers for accurate detection.

Reviewer 2: What is a lever arm offset? New term to me

Author: It's the offset vector from the vehicle center of gravity to the antenna in body frame (forward/right/down, meters).

Plus this is the description of the parameters 

SENS_GPSx_OFFX: "Forward axis relative to vehicle centre of gravity"
SENS_GPSx_OFFY: "Right axis relative to vehicle centre of gravity"
SENS_GPSx_OFFZ: "Down axis relative to vehicle centre of gravity"

Reviewer 2: I guessed, but it was not clear. How about

```suggestion
  Make sure to configure the `SENS_GPSx_OFF(X/Y/Z)` offsets of both receivers for accurate detection.
```

Reviewer: True, there's no actual lever arm involved but configured sensor offsets.

Reviewer: Fixed in 8130f9b It actually only looks at X and Y components because Z would be hard to factor in with the different and usually far less accurate vertical certainty of GNSS solutions.
